In the last lesson we wrote our custom use fetch hook but I want to take some time for us to deepen
our understanding of why we wrote the use affects portion of this hook the way that we did as well as
understanding when to use the use effect took most effectively based on our needs because of how we
actually pass in the second argument.
So some of you might remember from our use a fact lesson that whenever we wrote the use of Hook before
we passed in an array of dependencies and whatever the dependency we put inside of that array would
let us conditionally fire or use a fact hook.
So for example inside of this use fetch hook example if the only time I wanted are actual fetch data
inside of our use of took to be fired when ever the URL changed the You are all being the prompt being
passed into this hook then I would write inside of this array that I pass as the second argument the
actual You are all property meaning that I only want to fire use effect whenever the you are L prop
has changed however if instead I wanted it to fire every time the use fetch hook gets called which includes
when ever the user component or the post component that uses our custom hook re renders meaning that
when ever react makes our post or our user component render for whatever reason then I want to fire
the hook if I don't pass that second right that's exactly what will happen use effects we'll get called
when ever use fetch gets called meaning that whenever this component re mounts use Fetch is getting
recalled every single time and I want this because I don't know if the user object inside of this user
component is always the most up to date piece of data regarding the user because for some reason as
we know with our firebase live database are user might change so we want to make sure that we're always
try our best to fetch the latest data related to our user that's actually what's really great about
the use effect hook is that we have multiple ways to conditionally decide when we actually want to call
it we can only call it on initialization if we pass an empty array meaning that we only want to fire
this effect when any of the dependencies change inside of this array but there's no dependencies in
our array so we really only far that use effect took the very first time it ever gets instantiated.
Alternatively if we wanted to only update use effect when ever use effect got called then we pass know
array so that use effect will always get triggered regardless of whatever dependencies change because
we're saying I don't care what dependencies there are I just want you to always fire my use effect took
when ever either the hook containing it so I use fetch hook gets called or inside of a component where
it use effect is being used directly whenever that component renders I also want to just make sure I
fire my hook so that's what's really good about use effects we can have all these different ways that
we can use it you just have to think about your use case.
So in our use case because we know that our data might not always be up to date we just want to make
sure that we are always firing that use a fact hook that we wrote inside of use fetch whenever this
component renders for whatever reason it is if the user I.D. changes or if even the parent that's using
user so or app component we renders it or we render the user we're just going to fetch again that way
we're always making sure that what we're getting is the most up to date version of our user even if
the string that we're fetching from doesn't change so if perfecting the same user that's fine for us
because we want to make sure that we always have live and up to date data we don't only want to change
it when the user I.D. changes so that's why we didn't pass any array into the second argument of use
effect for this reason so hopefully that clarifies any questions but it also helps you understand when
to use use effect with an array of no dependencies with an array of dependencies and with no array at
all.
OK let's move on with her lesson.